---
layout: post
title: 👋🏼 🇰🇪 Welcome to our School
description: A welcome letter from SHOFCO's co-founders, Kennedy and Jessica Odede
image: kakapo-creek-childrens-garden-collingridge-and-smith-architects-casa_5.jpg
---
NEEDS EDITING
Dear perspective community member, 

Fifteen years ago, we embarked on a groundbreaking education venture.  Could we build a school in the midst of Kibera?  Could this school break persistent models of education and mold critical thinkers, problem solvers, pace setters, innovators while staying grounded in values of service and community?  The Kibera School for Girls was so successful we built a second in Mathare and today our students excel at top institutions around the globe.  The Chapin School (New York City’s premiere private school), has been our partner for over 14 years, innovating around curriculum, delivery, STEAM, teacher training, and more.  We currently have  students at Columbia University, Amherst College, Skidmore College, Connecticut College, Franklin & Marshall, Susquehanna University, Drexel University, The University of Hartford, Taft, Brooks, Miss Porter’s, Loomis Chafee, Episcopal… the list continues.  They are student body vice presidents, valedictorians, sports team captains.  Even more so, they are leaders in their communities where they design and implement community service projects that they deliver with their peers.  Deans of Admissions at the world’s most prestigious schools are frequent visitors to our campuses and each time they ask us, “How can you give us more students like these?”

Now, as parents ourselves, we found ourselves asking new questions about how our own children will be educated and become adapted, integrated citizens of Kenya and of our rapidly globalizing world.  

The rate of change in the world has far outpaced that of the education sector.  Our children will likely have jobs that today, we cannot even imagine.  The skills they need are about problem solving, consensus building, out-of-the box thinking, appreciation and understanding of different perspectives.  To meet the challenges of our changing world they need grit.  Resilience.  Empathy.  Much of what they learn in most schools is already, or will soon be obsolete.  

When we look at our own children, we imagine a future for them where they don’t just have “new world” jobs, but where they are creators of these jobs, of new industries, of new opportunities.  Where they are equipped to lead, and to thrive, and to find their own unique paths and passions.  

When we looked around at our options in Nairobi to educate our children, we didn’t see a school that could deliver this vision; so based on our expertise and experience in the education sector (and in building and delivering many other innovative solutions to complex challenges), we decided to partner again with the Chapin School, and a team of learning design experts to bring this new school to life.   A school where every child is loved, and understood and encouraged to learn at their pace and develop their unique skills.  An intentionally non-pressurized environment but one that values discovery and fosters a love of learning.  A school that beyond basic skills, creates thinkers, life-long learners, and where a world-class curriculum is amplified by cutting edge technology, innovation, arts, sports and entrepreneurship programming.  

But there was more that is missing for us.  Kennedy grew up in the Kibera slums; and through a combination of luck and vision, he is today a globally recognized leader.  Kennedy has learned as much from life on the streets in Kibera, or from the brilliant entrepreneurial people we work with across the slums as from Presidents and world leaders.  Bridging this divide; and connecting to both of these worlds has enriched every aspect of our lives.  When we look at our children; we see how easy it is for their Nairobi life to exist in an elite, sheltered bubble. We do not want this for our children.  We do not want this for other children.  We do not want to live in and perpetuate such a stratified society.  

Working with the best and brightest young people from Mathare and Kibera for the last 15+ years, and in Kennedy’s own life journey, we have seen the richness, the inspiration, of learning and growing alongside children who did not have, as Kennedy might say, “their lives handed to them with a silver spoon.”   Our students from SHOFCO Kibera and Mathare exemplify so many of the qualities we wish for our own children.  Grit and grace.  Hard work.  Persistence.  Gratitude.  Dedication to developing their talents and passions toward true excellence.  We have struggled with how, for our very privileged children, to bridge this divide.  To develop deep and authentic relationships that grow as they do; enriching both their lives and disrupting the class divide of this country.  On the other side, as our students have returned from Columbia, from Amherst they know the global elite--but when they come home to Kenya they do not know another peer not from their communities.  This network desert must change--- for this country ---- but also for the lives of gifted, compassionate, talented students both born into privilege or without.  Both lives will only be better for this.  And yet; there is no easy solution.

Our school is a mixed-income community.  Offering an excellent learning environment for students with privilege, and those without.  Both students will share the same learning experiences, play on the same sports teams, and perform in school plays.  Together they will discover the joys of reading, of building a computer, frolicking on the playground, and designing community service activities side by side.  Bridging these divides will not be easy or without discomfort on both sides; but we will build this integrated community with thoughtfulness and intention; informed by over a decade of integrating world-class students from the slums into leading institutions around the world.  So, why not also in Kenya?  

In our extensive time spent with deans of admissions from the world’s leading institutions one thing is clear; today everyone applying to a top school is an A student, a leader in student government, captain of a sports team, musical--- talented and smart.  Our over-pressured society has made what was once seen as “excellence” just standard.  Today, what stands out is a student who is different, and who has unique and perspective-shaping experiences.  We strive to shape a community of doers.  Of makers.  Of leaders.  A new generation ready to rise to, and solve the complex challenges of today.  A cadre of students re-defining excellence for themselves, and for a rapidly adapting world.  

Our school community is a microcosm of what we wish the world might become.  A community made of people from very different walks of life; but powerfully united in the shared struggle and vision to raise their children to live happy lives, discover themselves, and make a difference for those around them.  Being a parent is a unifying experience.  We all want the best for our children.  Our community is built on this unifying truth.  

Welcome.  

Kennedy + Jessica Odede
Founders, Shining Hope for Communities  


